Welcome to JW Broadcasting. Here is what we can look forward to on the program
this month. Why do we need to be quick to address problems when they arise? We
will highlight the benefits. And our music video will encourage us to reach out
to expand our ministry. We will also find out how our brothers and sisters
reached out to the visitors that came to the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro
Brazil last year. This is the September program of JW Broadcasting. The theme
selected for my comments this month is punctuality, a godly quality. You might
remember the opening paragraph and a 1990 watchtower article on the subject of
punctuality. It said that an elder's closest friends jokingly called him
Armageddon. Why? They replied we know he's coming but only God knows when. The
elder had a problem with punctuality. Punctuality has nothing in common with
procrastination. To procrastinate means to intentionally put off the doing of
something that should be done. The saying tomorrow is the busiest day of the
year reflects the human tendency to procrastinate. How appropriate then is the
inspired encouragement concerning the present today. Galatians 6.10 says as
long as we have the opportunity let us work what is good toward all. As long as
we have the opportunity does not sound like procrastination to me. Know the
Bible encourages just the opposite punctuality. Punctuality refers to the
characteristic of being prompt in keeping appointments. Punctuality is a godly
quality. In fact Matthew 6.33 prioritizes our pursuit of kingdom interest. It
says keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness and all
these other things will be added to you. He said to seek the kingdom first not
second not third or fourth first when we put the kingdom first in our life we do
not put it off in favor of some trivial pursuit. If it is time for a
Christian meeting we're there. Well before it starts perhaps you have heard
some say at least I made it to the meeting better late than never but the
godly way is better never late. Jehovah is a punctual god he sets the example
for us. When Jehovah decided to destroy the ungodly world in a deluge he said
to Noah Genesis chapter 6 verse 14 make for yourself an art then a Genesis 7
4 Jehovah told Noah to enter into the art and informed him for in just seven
days I will make it rain on the earth for 40 days and 49. What happened? A
better late than never attitude? No. That is not acceptable to Jehovah. Instead
Genesis chapter 7 verse 10 says and seven days later the flood waters came up
on the earth. Right on time punctuality is a godly quality by means of a prophecy
in Daniel chapter 9 Jehovah indicated hundreds of years in advance when
Jesus would fulfill his role as Messiah and Savior. When did Jesus present
himself for that role? Better late than never? No precisely on time. In 29 CE
Jesus was anointed as Christ. In fact Romans chapter 5 verse 6 says Christ died
for ungodly men at the appointed time. Jehovah is punctual. What about in
our time? The Bible tells us to keep in expectation of Jehovah's future day of
judgment. When will it happen? Well to us it may seem that it has delayed but
what do we know about Jehovah? He is punctual and so it is that Habakkuk chapter
2 verse 3 tells us for the vision is yet for its appointed time and it is
rushing toward its end and it will not lie even if it should delay. Keep in
expectation of it for it will without fail come true. It will not be late.
Punctuality is Jehovah's way. Unlike the elders cited earlier this Armageddon
will be on time. The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 was specifically
discussing what happens at Christian gatherings. In verse 26 he said when you
come together let all things take place for building up. Then at 1 Corinthians
chapter 14 verse 40 he concludes by saying but let all things take place
decently and by arrangement. Look at the words again. When speaking about
Christian meetings he said let things take place decently and Greek it literally
means well-behavidly. Paul also used a Greek word translated here by arrangement.
The literal meaning of the Greek word is according to order. If we are to be
well-behaved according to order at our meeting what would be one aspect of that?
Being punctual on time for the start of the meeting. While the lack of punctuality
affects all cultures to one degree or another it is true that some cultures are
more punctual than others as a whole. A missionary reported that in one town
where he served his wife would be the only person in the audience when he
announced the opening song at the beginning of the meeting but when he
announced the closing song 70 people would be there. On the other hand in a
Western European country about a thousand people were asked if you were invited
to dinner at 7 p.m. should you arrive five or 10 minutes early or five or 10
minutes late or exactly on time. The majority responded that courtesy
requires scrupulous respect for the host and arriving at the exact minute.
Each culture would likely think that the other is extreme. However being in
punctual is more than a matter of regional preference. It is a godly
quality that true Christians of every culture want to cultivate.
punctuality must become a habit a way of life. It is similar to some countries
that do not have a habit of good hygiene or cleanliness. That may be true but
it is expected that Jehovah's people in those lands will excel in good hygiene
and clean habits. In the same way no matter what our background culture
or upbringing it is expected that we as imitators of our God will develop the
godly habit of being punctual. What helps us to be punctual?
The Bible encourages advanced planning. Proverbs 21 5 says
The plans of the diligent surely lead to success but all who are hasty surely
head for poverty. So being punctual is not just a matter of hastily fulfilling an
obligation or an appointment. It involves thinking in advance about our
responsibilities. Yes, planning to be prepared for them and to be
prompt in carrying them out. Well, what are some activities that we would want
to be punctual in fulfilling? It can be the everyday things in life
such as arriving at work or at school on time being punctual for appointments
such as a visit to the doctor or dentist arriving at the designated time
when invited to another's home for a meal. What is our habit like when it comes to
these areas of life? Even more important is punctuality when attending our
Christian meetings and assemblies. This means being present before
the opening song in prayer. The Apostle Paul quoted from Psalm 22
when he wrote Hebrews 212 of Jesus. He said, I will declare your name to my brothers
in the midst of the congregation. I will praise you with song. If that was true of Jesus,
it is a great incentive for us to participate in singing the first song
with our congregation. And the opening prayer is important for us.
In ancient times, Jehovah called the temple his house of prayer. It's true that the opening
prayer requests Jehovah's guidance and Holy Spirit on the program. However, it also prepares
our minds and hearts to receive the information to be considered. Of course, there may be times when
one is unavoidably late in arriving at a meeting. Public transportation may be delayed,
or our car may break down. That's understandable on occasion. But what is our habit?
In the past, it was suggested that we consider arriving 15 or 20 minutes before a meeting started.
One brother with six siblings said his father made a goal of being at the kingdom hall,
20 minutes before the program began. That certainly took advance planning. His father's
byline for meeting attendance was if you're five minutes early, then you're 15 minutes late.
In most cases, the whole family arrived 20 minutes before the meeting for wholesome association.
Another opportunity for punctuality is arriving on time for a meeting for service.
This is challenging for some. However, with a little advance planning, we can be successful.
Punctuality is particularly important since the actual meeting is only about 10 minutes long.
If we're late, not only is it disruptive, but it could force the one taking the lead to redo
the arrangements made for the group. And speaking of our ministry, what is an opportunity to be
punctual every month? Yes, you guessed it. Turning in our Field Service Report at the end of the month.
Do you have a way of reminding yourself of this? In some lands, it is almost as if it is a custom
for the start of a wedding talk to be delayed. Often this is because of mistakenly
gauging how much time the bride needs to get dressed and made up for her grand appearance.
However, being considered if those invited should move those involved to allow extra time
to complete the task of preparation. A 1990 watchtower commented on being punctual in starting a wedding.
The very next sentence stated, you may like to have your egg boiled for just so many minutes.
I am not sure exactly how that applies to a wedding, but I think we get to point, don't we?
We should have calculated the timing in advance so that the ceremony begins on time.
Do we have yet another example of being punctual, not procrastinating?
How about when there is a difference between you and a fellow believer or a family member?
Of course, if it is simply a minor issue because of imperfection, often the best thing to do is
forgive and forget. But if it was more serious or we cannot simply let it go, what should we do?
We need to settle the matter and restore the peace. When should we take this step?
Do not procrastinate if we do the problem may fester and get worse.
What kind of a priority to Jesus establish for restoring peace between fellow believers?
At Matthew 523-24, note his clear indication of punctuality.
If then you are bringing your gift to the altar and there you remember that your brother has
something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar and go away first make your
peace with your brother and then come back and offer your gift. Did you pick up on the timing
that Jesus recommended for reconciliation? He said first, first make your peace with your brother.
It is a high priority and should be treated as such. But remember the scripture we shared earlier,
Proverbs 21-5. This principle should be implemented. They last part of the verse warns us not to be
hasty. Hasty is not synonymous with punctuality. Instead the first part of the verse indicates we
should prepare or plan the visit first. Then follow through without procrastinating. It said this
approach will lead to success. What is the success we are seeking? Jesus did not say to justify
our position or to point out the flaw in the other person's words or actions. No, he said you
would be successful if you make your peace with your brother. Punctuality is a godly quality that
we should strive to cultivate. Another aspect of punctuality is ending an assignment on time.
In the interest of punctuality, let's move on to the next segment of our program.
Thank you brother heard, you who are teaching by example, we appreciate that. And on the subject
of punctuality, we wanted to share an example of how ingrained a problem can become if we let it
fester. Meet brother Peter Zach. As he relates his story, look for ways punctuality or
promptly addressing matters could have helped him to minimize the effects of the problem.
I was born in Poland and when I was about five years old, my family immigrated to Canada.
I feel from a young age I really loved Jehovah. I had a good relationship with him. I enjoyed
going in field service. I enjoyed the congregation. But like all youths, I had my distractions,
you could say, and for me in particular was video games. I remember in the beginning,
even my parents would set some rules. But as I kept progressing in that game and I started
participating in tournaments, I started getting recognized. Admired, it started becoming a temptation.
People would go to download my previously played games to study my techniques, my strategies.
I was interviewed by different websites. People wanted to be on my team. I could see that this world
was slowly dragging me in. For example, there was a huge tournament that I participated in.
I finished very well, received many prizes. And then after that tournament, there was another
tournament even bigger, with huge prizes, cash prizes, competition for all the best players in the
world. At this time, also, the website was growing. We were just sponsored to produce our own
tournament with cash prizes for the players. So I really thought that this would be an opportunity
for me to maybe have a career, maybe to support myself. So in the future, if I wanted to pie in
here and I thought it was a realistic goal. But as the website also kept progressing and as I got
more involved with it, I realized what I was exposed to was very, very dangerous, very harmful.
It was immoral, wicked, improper things. I was going to the meetings, I was going in service.
But at the same time, all my other time was spent on this video game. But it was only slowly
over time I started realizing that it was having a very negative effect on my spiritual team.
I noticed that when I was in service, I would think only about the video. When the service was over,
I would rush home to play the video game. Even at meetings, I would attend all my meetings,
but I would sit there and nothing was coming in. I went there in person, but my mind wasn't there.
So that also started bothering me. And at this time, my older brothers who were always a good
example to me, they quit playing games. They were making improvements in the congregation.
They were having privileges, working hard for their brothers and sisters in that congregation.
I could see they were so happy. They had the real joy and satisfaction. But for me, I didn't.
I was always feeling empty inside. I need to change. I remember in particular one day at the back
of the kingdom hall, the brother and elder who studied with me and my two brothers, he approached me
and he very reasonably talked to me about my future. He also helped me see my brothers and how
they stopped and they were so happy. And I could see the difference. I was serving two masters
at the same time, but I was really losing out with Jehovah. So I knew I had to make drastic changes
in my life. Up until then, I did try a few times to stop playing video games.
And I worked for a couple of days, but I got right back into it. I lacked self control.
So I realized that for me, if I wanted to stop this, I need to make complete stop of everything.
So I prayed about it. I asked Jehovah for help, for strength, to give me the courage to take
this action. We took down the website, deleted the games, stopped playing the games, and just made
a clean sweep, clean stop. And I knew I needed that. Right after, I felt like a load was lifted.
I had all this time now I could spend. And I was spending it more in a ministry, in a congregation.
So soon after, I started auxiliary pioneering, the regular pioneering. I started doing a lot more
in a congregation. I could see how happy I was. It was bringing me real joy, satisfaction.
So I remember after pioneering for a few years, I started learning a foreign language.
It was challenging, but it was exciting. I moved to another city to expand my ministry. Then I
moved to another country. And I remember just studying with people as a need grader and just seeing
them progress and seeing how they made changes in their lives and how they started having
relationship with Jehovah. And that I was being used to help them to get to that point was such an
amazing feeling. Now I have the privilege of serving in Bethel and I can see Jehovah's hand in my life
and also be able to give every day to him. This is the joy that I was looking for. So I would
definitely encourage all young ones to really test out Jehovah. Like Ecclesiastes chapter 12 verse 1,
my favorite scripture is growing up, that just give Jehovah, test them out, give them your everything
and you will see you have no regrets. You have true satisfaction from serving him.
When should Peter have considered limiting his preoccupation with video games?
Video and computer games in themselves are not wrong unless they are about things Jehovah hates.
But did you notice that Peter explained that there was a point when the games became a temptation?
That is, the games were no longer merely occasional entertainment but started to become the center
of his life. That was the warning for him to sit down and review how much time and effort he
should be spending on video games. But he didn't. He did not address the matter promptly.
As a result, he later had to admit that all he thought of even at the meetings or in the ministry
was video games. Despite the mistake, Peter wisely applied the words of Matthew 5 verse 30.
Also, if your right hand is making you stumble, cut it off and throw it away from you.
While he did not need to, literally, cut off his mouse clicking right hand,
he got rid of anything that caused the temptation in the first place.
If you are a parent, you have a responsibility to help your children address any concerns that may arise.
You need to know what they are doing and then lovingly guide them based on biblical principles.
Acting promptly when you sense a problem is building up is equally important in other aspects of life.
This dramatization highlights how we can do so when married.
We do have good friends in our congregation, but there's so much work. Why is Jessica so upset?
Okay, maybe I should have asked before turning down that dinner invite.
But she knows how busy I am. I've got elders meetings, work, pioneering, but she just says,
we never do anything fun anymore. Maybe she's right. Sometimes even when we're together,
we're not really together. Lives are filled with spiritual activities, but our family worship
hasn't exactly been regular. Maybe I fooled myself into thinking because we're busy doing
things for Jehovah, it's okay to skip it sometimes. We argued again tonight, then went to bed angry.
Something we said we'd never do. The next morning I told Jessica how sorry I was, and she admitted
she felt bad too. We decided to research Ephesians chapter 4 that night for family worship.
One article mentioned how sad it would be if marriagemates spoke to each other with less respect
than total strangers. That really struck us. Then we read Ephesians 4, 31, and 32.
Put away from yourselves every kind of malicious bitterness, anger, wrath, screaming, and abusive
speech, as well as everything injurious. But become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate,
freely forgiving one another, just as God also by Christ, freely forgave you.
We both promised to work on making our words and tone more loving and kind. We also studied the
Bible accounts of Aquila and Priscilla, who are a beautiful example of what it means for a married
couple to be one flesh. They were together at home, at work, and in the ministry. That's when we
realized we needed to draw closer as a couple. Since then we do as much as we can together.
We're still busy in spiritual activities, but they are never an excuse to neglect our relationship.
And now we aren't just marriagemates. We're once again best friends.
As this dramatization and the example of Peter Zach showed, whenever you sense a problem,
address it. Do not procrastinate. Be punctual. At times, world events may highlight the importance
of being punctual. In May of last year, a wildfire overtook the Canadian city of Fort McMurray
in the province of Alberta. The brothers and sisters there benefited from promptly
following the direction they had received from their local congregations.
There was a local needs part and we'd try to do it every year. And this year it was in the
perfect time because the next week we had the fire. And when the brother was reviewing, he was saying
it was a high fire hazard year. So be prepared and it was nice. The brothers were so obedient and
took that to heart and we're ready. It happened so quickly from being fine and safe too,
we got to get out of here. We started to hear the municipalities saying there are mandatory
evacuations for different neighborhoods. So within noon, two o'clock, four o'clock,
90,000 people are in motion. When you were standing outside, you could hear the helicopters
going, the sirens going, the smoke was so thick and intense. Both the lifts and the right
were all in flames. It was totally in flames. Oh, it was chaotic. People running to their cars
seeing and looking at the big cloud of smoke approaching them and just the fright in their eyes.
He just came to mind during the local needs. The brother said, if in case an emergency,
you have to fall a direction, listen to the local authorities and listen to your local elders.
Each elder for the field service groups had a care for a small amount of people. I was calling
all the brothers and sisters that I can find out where they were, if they were safe.
Every group overseer knew exactly where everybody in his group was at all times.
One brother came to help my wife and the kids to evacuate while I was at work. So I felt very
indebted to this brother that he acted on my behalf to get my family to a safe place.
To see the brothers okay and calm, it makes me calm.
It's all gone and it went away overnight. If we are to put our trust in such things,
where is it now? Although we've lost all this, our relationship with Jehovah, we haven't lost that.
You can't salvage nothing. Everything is gone.
Gone, everything is gone. Yeah, this is our basement.
People always asking us like, did you lose your home and we're like, yeah, we did.
Seeing how quickly things can go, our things can disappear. It helps to appreciate the things that
are most important. Not only did we have our own lives, but we still have our budget sisters
with us. When we escaped and moved to Edmonton, which is about four and a half hours
right from here, the friends opened their homes to us and in the middle of the night,
2.30 a.m. and welcomed us. They gave us food, they gave us clothing, they gave us a place to stay.
That kind of hospitality really touched our heart. We realized that we hadn't missed anything.
Some of the friends we have been seeing them since the disaster, I'm okay.
And to meet the friends again, you know, about a month and a half after the disaster,
at the convention was really, really encouraging.
We see brothers that are working in different departments here at the convention,
and also with the disaster relief committee who have no home to go back to.
Yet they're so concerned about someone else that they don't even think about what they've really lost.
Although we've lost everything materially, we have everything spiritually.
What is gone is gone. What is important is our lives and our relationship with Jehovah.
The local needs part proved very helpful for our brothers and sisters in Fort McMurray.
The part included direction about having a go bag and keeping the gas tanks of their vehicles
full. Because of the distance to the nearest town and the heavy traffic during the evacuation,
having a full tank of gas proved to be very timely advice. Instead of procrastinating,
our brothers and sisters in Alberta followed the direction to their benefit.
Although our circumstances may not be as extreme, we all experience challenging situations
every now and then. The need to be punctual always applies. For example,
there is no need to wait for perfect circumstances before expanding our ministry.
For some, expanding our ministry could mean taking the leap into full-time service.
Two families did just that in this music video entitled Let's Take the Leap.
Not now. This chance might slip this up. It's Let's Take the Leap. Let's not hold. Let's not
make your whole back. Expanding our ministry in whatever form can bring us great joy at
servants of Jehovah. Even if your circumstances today do not allow you to enter the full-time service,
there is plenty to do. Our brothers and sisters in Brazil experienced an opportunity to make
special efforts in their preaching work when the Olympic and Paralympic games were held there
in August and September of 2016. Close to 15,000 athletes from approximately 205 countries were
present along with many visitors. More than one million tourists were present at the Olympic
Games in Rio de Janeiro, and among them were around 410,000 foreigners.
In an effort to teach these ones about the Bible, Jehovah's Witnesses engaged in a special
public witnessing campaign. To reach as many people as possible, we set up 268 cards.
Not only were the games were held, but also throughout the city of Rio de Janeiro.
That way were we able to reach people from even far-away islands like Vanuatu,
which is one of the islands of the Pacific. Delegates from that island picked up
publications from our witnessing cards. We made efforts to put the stands and
cards as close as possible to the places where the brothers would work. Thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to get a strategic location near the entrance to the arenas,
which we didn't think would be possible. We planned to have 1,500 volunteers, but we got
4,000 volunteers. We asked for help from other cities, other states, and also from foreign
language congregations. So for us, this was beyond our expectations. During the Olympics,
more than one million people passed through the harbor here, and thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to set up more than 40 cards in the immediate harbor area and placed almost
20,000 pieces of literature. To refill the cards, we used a quadrucicle that picked up the
publications at the support hub and took them to the brothers at the cards. The media provided
extensive coverage with more than 26,000 press professionals involved, and security was also
reinforced with more than 22,000 military personnel. The work of our brothers certainly did not go
unnoticed. We were at the card when suddenly a police car full of officers stopped in front of us.
I was worried they were going to ask us questions or make us leave, but then they got out of the
car, came towards us, and one of them picked up the Bible Teach book, and without saying anything
to us told the others, didn't I tell you I was going to find them here? You can take these publications,
they're free. These books would teach you amazing things.
This campaign helped to overcome prejudices, both with the authorities and people in general,
because they were able to see the international scope of our work.
And this became especially clear when it came to the officials because they allowed the brothers
to put the cards as close as possible to the arenas where the games were being held.
In all, more than 85,000 publications and more than 10 languages were distributed by means of
the 268 cards scattered throughout the city. Over a year of planning went into preparing for
this event and produced excellent results. Our international preaching work was
made known to thousands present at the Olympic Games, and most importantly, it gave a great
shout of praise to our God, Jehovah. We wanted to share a portrayal of life as a witness back
in the early 1900s. This unique dramatization about the endurance needed as a kingdom proclaimer
was previously shown to delegates at some international conventions held in one city in 2014.
This is a gift video that we received. The title is Knock Knock.
Are the dead? Would you wish that question answered according to Man's theory or to have the
answer is pointed out in the Bible? You will say a man's answer would be only a guest.
And yet for his no truth, more clearly taught in the Bible than that of the resurrection of the dead.
If the dead are to live again, then they must be resurrected and God has provided that
our shall be a resurrection. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is a guarantee that all who have died
must be awakened out of death and give it a knowledge of the truth. All mankind were born in sin,
and the death of the perfect man Jesus provided the purchased price for the right of man to live
again, and in due time Jesus will awaken them out of death. All of the dead in God's due time
should be awakened out of death. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there should be no
more death, either sorrow or crime, neither shall there be any more pain, or the form of things are
passed away. The resurrection will bring boundless joy to those who obey God under Christ's kingdom.
The obedient ones aren't. During the reign of Christ will be given everlasting life,
on their incomplete happiness and joy. Jehovah's way is always right and true. Learn that way and
live. The word resurrection means his standing up again to life. If it's claimed with the
clergy, the dead are alive in purgatory or some other place, then it follows that there could be no
resurrection, and yet for his no truth. The brother was blessed for his perseverance in the ministry.
His attitudes showed that he felt the urgency of the message. As God's people, we do not procrastinate.
Instead, we are prompt. We are punctual. Yes, being punctual is a godly quality.
We would like to conclude the broadcast with greetings from Uganda, specifically the town of Fort
Portal in Western Uganda. The 120 publishers there preached to almost 60,000 people who live in Fort
Portal. They conduct approximately 300 Bible studies. There are two congregations, one English,
and one rhetoral, and also two rural groups, some 60 kilometers or approximately 37 miles away.
Brothers are taking turns visiting the two groups and supporting them in the field ministry.
In the past, the main challenge was the lack of literature and the rhetoral language. However,
thanks to increased translation efforts, the number of publishers has increased dramatically. As a
result, the rhetoral congregation was formed in 2014. Next, the remote translation office was
established in 2015. And as a February of this year, the publishers received the study edition
of the Watchtower in Routoro. We love our brothers and sisters in Fort Portal very much,
and they send their love to all of God's people worldwide. This is JW Broadcasting from the World
Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.